     National Cheng Kung University

    Department of Engineering Science



An Automated Probabilistic Error

Cancellation Package for Near-Term

       Quantum Computers




           Author: Hsiao-Nan Lu



          Advisor: Hong-Bin Chen




               July 1, 2026
ABSTRACT (CHT)


ABSTRACT


   Probabilistic error cancellation (PEC) is one of the most promising quantum error-
mitigation techniques for noisy intermediate-scale quantum devices because it can,
in principle, remove bias induced by hardware noise without requiring full fault toler-
ance. In practice, however, PEC is dicult to deploy: it requires noise characterization,
quasi-probability decomposition, sampling control, and integration with quantum soft-
ware workows. This work focuses on the design of an automated PEC package that
translates user circuits into mitigation-ready execution pipelines, combining backend-
aware calibration, gate-level quasi-probability construction, adaptive sampling, and
standardized reporting.
   The proposed package further integrates observable-level readout mitigation, Pauli-
transfer-matrix-based channel representation, Pauli twirling for two-qubit gate noise,
and truncation-based sampling reduction into a unied workow. Because full PEC
execution on present-day hardware can require prohibitive circuit and sampling re-
sources, the framework adopts a hardware-informed simulation strategy in which noise
models extracted from IBM quantum backends are assigned to corresponding simula-
tors. Through this design, the package provides a modular and reproducible platform
for testing PEC under realistic noisy conditions while remaining oriented toward future
applications on real quantum hardware.


Keywords: quantum error mitigation, probabilistic error cancellation




                                           -i-
Contents


ABSTRACT (CHT)


  機率式誤差校正（probabilistic error cancellation, PEC）是目前雜訊量子裝置上
最具潛力的量子誤差緩解技術之一，因為此方法在原理上可於不依賴完整容錯機制
的情況下，消除由硬體雜訊所造成的偏差。然而，PEC 在實際應用上仍具有相當高
的困難度，原因在於其流程同時涉及雜訊特性分析、準機率分解、取樣控制，以及
與量子軟體工作流程的整合。
  本研究聚焦於自動化 PEC 套件之設計，目標是將使用者輸入的量子電路轉換為
可直接執行誤差緩解的工作流程，並整合後端感知校正、閘級準機率建構、適應性
取樣與標準化結果輸出等功能。此外，本套件亦將「觀測量等級」的讀出誤差緩
解、以「包立轉換矩陣」為基礎的通道表示法、針對二量子位元閘雜訊的「包立旋
轉」，以及基於「截斷」取樣縮減策略整合為一致化的架構。
  由於在現今量子硬體上直接完整執行 PEC 往往需要極為龐大的電路數量與取樣
資源，因此本研究採用一種以硬體資訊為基礎的模擬策略，即先自 IBM 量子後端擷
取雜訊模型，再將其配置至對應之模擬器中執行。透過此一設計，本套件可在維持
真實硬體導向特性的同時，提供一個模組化且可重現的工具，用以在實際雜訊條件
下測試 PEC 的效能，並作為未來拓展至真實量子硬體應用之基礎。




                            -ii-
Contents


Contents


ABSTRACT                                                               i
ABSTRACT (CHT)                                                        ii
Contents                                                             iii
List of Figures                                                       v
List of Tables                                                       vii
Chapter I     Introduction                                            1
    Introduction                                                      1
Chapter II    Background and General Framework                        4
    Background and General Framework                                  4
           Basic Principle of Probabilistic Error Cancellation        4
           Pauli Transfer Matrix Representation and Pauli Twirling    5
           Observable-Level and Gate-Level Mitigation                 7
           General Framework of the Proposed Package                  8
Chapter III      Methodology of the Package                           9
    Methodology of the Package                                        9
           Observable-Level Probabilistic Error Cancellation          9
           Two-Qubit Gate Probabilistic Error Cancellation           10
Chapter IV       Automated PEC Package Architecture                  17
    Automated PEC Package Architecture                               17
           Overall Workow of the Package                            17
           Readout Calibration Module                                18
           Two-Qubit-Gate Twirling Module                            19
           PEC Execution and Truncation Strategy                     20
Chapter V     Benchmark Results and Analysis                         24
    Benchmark Results and Analysis                                   24
           Common Simulation Settings                                24
           CNOT Benchmark                                            25
           Bell-State Benchmark                                      28
           Quantum-Teleportation Benchmark                           32
           Overall Discussion                                        39

                                           -iii-
Contents


Chapter VI   Conclusions and Future Work    40
    Conclusions and Future Work             40
    References                              41




                                     -iv-
List of Figures and Tables


List of Figures


   1    Illustration of the Pauli-twirling procedure. A general noisy two-qubit
        channel is transformed into an averaged eective channel that is easier
        to analyze in the PTM representation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            6
   2    State-preparation circuit used in the observable-level readout PEC work-
        ow. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   3    Circuit interpretation of Pauli twirling for a noisy two-qubit gate. The
        nonphysical direct-insertion picture is reformulated into an equivalent
        implementable construction using Cliord conjugation, and averaging
        over the resulting circuits produces the eective twirled noisy CNOT
        channel used in the PEC workow. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   4    Extension of the Pauli-twirling construction to a general n-qubit gate
        block. The Pauli operators are chosen from Pn and averaged over all
        realizations to obtain the eective twirled channel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
   5    Workow of the two-qubit-gate twirling procedure, including calibration-
        state preparation, averaging of the noisy CNOT channel, and the full
        implementable twirling circuit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
   6    Overall workow of the automated PEC package. A target quantum cir-
        cuit is processed by the readout-mitigation and two-qubit-gate twirling
        modules to generate mitigation weights, which are then passed to the
        PEC execution and post-processing stage to reconstruct the mitigated
        results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
   7    ReadoutPEC Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
   8    PauliTwirlingPEC Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
   9    PauliSamplingPEC Procedure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
   10   Cumulative quasi-probability contribution used to determine the trun-
        cation threshold. The dominant weighting terms are retained up to
        the chosen threshold, while the remaining low-contribution circuits are
        pruned from execution. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
   11   Circuit structures used in the CNOT benchmark. The benchmark com-
        pares circuits containing one, two, and three CNOT gates. . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
   12   Post-mitigation pseudocode for the CNOT benchmark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26

                                                              -v-
List of Figures and Tables


   13   Comparison of noisy and PEC-mitigated mean results for the CNOT
        benchmark under four IBM-device noisy models. The dashed horizontal
        line indicates the ideal value 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
   14   Circuit structure used in the Bell-state benchmark. A single Hadamard
        gate followed by one CNOT gate prepares the entangled state used for
        CHSH evaluation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
   15   Post-mitigation pseudocode for the Bell-state benchmark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
   16   Numerical results for the Bell-state benchmark over 100 trials under the
        ibm_fez noisy model executed by sim_fez. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
   17   Numerical results for the Bell-state benchmark over 100 trials under the
        ibm_boston noisy model executed by sim_boston. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
   18   Circuit structure used in the quantum-teleportation benchmark. The
        circuit contains three CNOT gates and is used to reconstruct the delity
        between the initial state on |ψin ⟩ and the nal state on |ψout ⟩. . . . . . . . . . 32
   19   Post-mitigation pseudocode for the quantum-teleportation benchmark. . . 33
   20   Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_fez noisy
        model executed by sim_fez for the input amplitude vector [0.6, 0.8]. . . . . 35
   21   Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_fez noisy
        model executed by sim_fez for the equal-superposition input state with
                            √     √
        amplitude vector [1/ 2, 1/ 2]. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
   22   Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_boston
        noisy model executed by sim_boston for the input amplitude vector
        [0.6, 0.8]. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
   23   Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_boston
        noisy model executed by sim_boston for the equal-superposition input
                                       √     √
        state with amplitude vector [1/ 2, 1/ 2]. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38




                                                            -vi-
List of Figures and Tables


List of Tables


   I    Truncation summary for the quantum-teleportation benchmark under
        two IBM-device noisy models. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33




                                                   -vii-
Chapter I




Chapter I
Introduction
I   Introduction


    Current quantum processors remain in the noisy intermediate-scale quantum (NISQ)
era [1], where the performance of quantum circuits is strongly limited by hardware noise
[2]. In realistic devices, computation is aected by multiple error sources, including fab-
rication imperfections, decoherence induced by environmental coupling, control errors,
crosstalk between qubits, and readout noise [36]. As circuit depth increases, these
noise sources accumulate rapidly and cause measured outputs to deviate signicantly
from ideal theoretical predictions [7]. This noise problem is one of the main obstacles
preventing near-term quantum devices from delivering reliable large-scale practical ad-
vantage [8, 9].
    To combat noise in quantum circuits, several strategies have been developed at
dierent levels of hardware and software. One representative low-level technique is
dynamic decoupling [10], which suppresses certain types of decoherence by inserting
carefully designed pulse sequences during idle periods. Dynamic decoupling is useful
for extending coherence times, but it does not provide a general solution for all gate
and measurement errors that appear in realistic quantum computations.
    At a more fundamental level, quantum error correction (QEC) provides a rigorous
framework for protecting quantum information by encoding logical qubits into many
physical qubits and actively correcting errors during computation [11]. In principle,
QEC oers a long-term route toward fault-tolerant quantum computing. However,
its implementation requires large hardware overhead, potentially requiring millions of
physical qubits to run practical algorithms [12], as well as frequent syndrome extraction
and physical error rates below the fault-tolerant threshold, all of which remain beyond
the capability of current NISQ devices.
    Because of these practical limitations, quantum error mitigation (QEM) has emerged

                                            -1-
Chapter I


as an important near-term alternative [1315]. Unlike QEC, QEM does not attempt to
fully correct errors during computation. Instead, it aims to reduce the eect of noise
on measured observables through circuit-level processing and classical post-processing
[1517]. This makes QEM especially attractive for present-day devices, where qubit
numbers and delities are still limited.

   Among existing QEM methods, zero-noise extrapolation (ZNE) is one of the most
widely used because of its conceptual simplicity and relative ease of implementation.
ZNE works by intentionally amplifying circuit noise, for example through gate folding or
pulse stretching [18], and then extrapolating the measured values back to the zero-noise
limit [13, 19]. Although eective in many small-scale demonstrations, ZNE becomes
less reliable for deeper circuits, since its sampling overhead and estimation error can
grow rapidly with circuit depth [20, 21]. Moreover, because ZNE does not explicitly
invert the noise process, its correction capability is limited when the error structure
becomes more complicated [22].

   A more systematic mitigation strategy is probabilistic error cancellation (PEC) [23].
In particular, Pauli-twirling-based PEC transforms a general noisy channel into an ef-
fective Pauli channel that is easier to analyze and invert. By expressing the inverse
noisy process as a quasi-probability expansion over Pauli operations [24], PEC enables
unbiased estimation of ideal expectation values when the underlying noise model is suf-
ciently accurate. Recent advances such as virtual distillation, Cliord Data Regression
(CDR), benchmarking-oriented unied frameworks, and learning-based methods have
further expanded this domain [2530].

   Despite its theoretical appeal, PEC is still dicult to implement in practice. A
complete PEC workow requires noise characterization, channel reconstruction, and
statistical post-processing [31]. These steps are not only technically involved, but also
sensitive to notation consistency, backend conguration, and sampling overhead. To
streamline this process, existing software frameworks have laid the groundwork for
modular QEM [32].

   To address this issue, we aim to develop an automated PEC package that can
ultimately be applied to real quantum hardware [33, 34]. The package integrates the
major components of PEC into a unied workow, including observable-level readout
mitigation, Pauli-twirled two-qubit gate mitigation, automated circuit transformation,

                                           -2-
Chapter II


weighted execution, and truncation-based sampling reduction. However, because a full
PEC evaluation on present-day hardware requires extremely large computational and
sampling resources, directly carrying out the complete workow on physical quantum
devices is not yet practical for the benchmark scope considered in this thesis.
   For this reason, the present work adopts a hardware-informed simulation strategy.
Instead of executing the full PEC pipeline directly on the physical quantum computer,
we extract noise models from IBM quantum backends and assign them to the cor-
responding simulators to reproduce realistic device noise during execution. With this
design, the package remains oriented toward practical hardware applications while pro-
viding a reproducible and resource-manageable platform for testing PEC performance
under realistic noisy conditions. In this sense, the contribution of this work is not only
to apply PEC, but also to provide a modular and scalable workow for studying how
PEC can be deployed for near-term quantum computing research.




                                           -3-
Chapter II




Chapter II
Background and General Framework
II    Background and General Framework


     This chapter presents the theoretical framework required by the proposed automated
PEC package. Rather than repeating the general motivation already given in Chapter
1, the focus here is placed on the technical concepts that directly support the package
design, including quasi-probability-based inversion [13, 23], the Pauli transfer matrix
(PTM) representation [24], Pauli twirling [33], and the distinction between observable-
level and gate-level mitigation. These ingredients provide the common language used
by the class-based implementation described in the following chapter, and they also
connect naturally to recent developments in practical QEM workows [27].


              II.A. Basic Principle of Probabilistic Error Cancellation

     The central idea of probabilistic error cancellation is to represent the inverse of a
noisy quantum process as a linear combination of physically implementable operations.
                                                               e . Instead of directly
Suppose an ideal quantum circuit is aected by a noisy channel Λ
inverting the noise by a nonphysical operation, PEC reconstructs the inverse channel
in the form of a quasi-probability expansion,
                                               X
                                  e −1 (ρ) =
                                  Λ                  qj Pbj ρPbj† ,                    (1)
                                                j


where {Pbj } denotes an operator basis and {qj } are quasi-probability coecients. Be-
cause some coecients qj may be negative, they cannot be interpreted as ordinary
probabilities. Instead, they are used to dene a randomized execution strategy to-
gether with appropriate statistical reweighting.
     In practice, PEC is implemented by sampling correction operations according to
the magnitudes of the quasi-probability coecients and combining the resulting mea-

                                               -4-
Chapter II


surement outcomes with signed weights. In this way, the average over many random-
ized circuit executions reproduces the ideal expectation value under the assumed noise
model. Therefore, PEC transforms the noise-mitigation problem into a combination of
calibration, sampling, and classical post-processing [13, 23, 33].
   The main advantage of PEC is that it can remove bias rather than merely sup-
pressing it approximately. However, this benet comes at the cost of increased sam-
pling overhead. The variance of the estimator generally grows with the L1 norm of
the quasi-probability coecients, which means that accurate mitigation may require a
large number of circuit samples. This bias-variance trade-o and the associated growth
of statistical uctuation in error-mitigated estimators have been analyzed in Ref. [35].
Consequently, a practical PEC framework must address not only the construction of
the inverse channel, but also the management of sampling cost and execution eciency.


         II.B. Pauli Transfer Matrix Representation and Pauli Twirling

   To construct PEC in a form suitable for implementation, it is convenient to describe
noisy quantum channels in the Pauli transfer matrix (PTM) representation. In this
representation, operators are expanded in the Pauli basis, and quantum channels are
expressed as linear transformations acting on the corresponding coecient vectors. For
an n-qubit system, the Pauli basis is dened as

                               b σ̂x , σ̂y , σ̂z }⊗n ,
                         Pn = {I,                        |Pn | = 4n .                (2)

This representation is especially useful because it provides a structured way to analyze
noisy gates and to derive inverse maps for mitigation.
   For real quantum devices, the noise aecting a gate operation is generally not de-
scribed by a single simple channel. Instead, it arises from a combination of dierent
physical error sources already discussed in the Introduction, including decoherence,
imperfect control, crosstalk, and measurement-related errors. Depending on the hard-
ware platform and operating condition, these eects may manifest through amplitude-
damping noise, phase-damping noise, depolarizing noise, or coherent over-rotation er-
rors. As a result, the eective noisy behavior of a two-qubit gate is typically compli-
cated and cannot be characterized conveniently by only one elementary noise model.
To obtain a tractable approximate description of such a noisy channel, this work adopts

                                               -5-
Chapter II


the Pauli basis as an eective representation framework. In this representation, the
complicated physical noise can be mapped to a channel description that is easier to an-
alyze, calibrate, and invert. For the two-qubit gate errors considered in this work, a key
simplication is obtained by applying Pauli twirling, as illustrated in Fig. 1. Through
averaging over suitable Pauli conjugations, Pauli twirling transforms a general noisy
channel into an eective channel that is diagonal in the PTM basis [36]. It is precisely
this diagonal structure that allows the twirled channel to be written in the simple form
of Eq. (3). After twirling, the eective channel becomes
                                    h              i
                           e PT = Ei P † Λ
                           Λ(·)          e Pi · P † Pi ,                              (3)
                                      i          i


where the coecients {ck } characterize the response of the channel on each Pauli basis
element. This diagonal structure greatly simplies inversion, because the inverse chan-
nel can be constructed by inverting the PTM eigenvalues whenever they are nonzero.




                           (a) A noisy two-qubit gate channel.




                  (b) The averaged eective channel after Pauli twirling.


   FIG. 1. Illustration of the Pauli-twirling procedure. A general noisy two-qubit
channel is transformed into an averaged eective channel that is easier to analyze in
                                the PTM representation.


   The Pauli-twirled channel can equivalently be written as a Pauli channel,
                                                n −1
                                               4X
                                e PT
                                Λ      (ρ) =           αj Pbj ρPbj† ,                 (4)
                                               j=0


                                               -6-
Chapter II


where {αj } are the Pauli-channel coecients. After inversion, the corresponding quasi-
probability representation becomes
                                                  n −1
                                                 4X
                               e PT −1                   qj Pbj ρPbj† .              (5)
                                   
                               Λ         (ρ) =
                                                 j=0


The coecients {qj } are then used by the package to generate randomized correction
circuits and to reconstruct mitigated expectation values through weighted averaging.
   In this work, Pauli twirling plays two important roles. First, it reduces the com-
plexity of the eective noise model, making the mitigation procedure more tractable
for practical implementation. Second, it creates a direct connection between calibra-
tion data and executable correction circuits, which is essential for software automation.
For this reason, the PTM representation and Pauli-twirled inverse channel form the
theoretical backbone of the proposed package.



                II.C. Observable-Level and Gate-Level Mitigation

   The automated PEC package developed in this thesis contains two complementary
layers of mitigation. The rst layer addresses measurement-related errors at the ob-
servable level [37]. Readout noise distorts the experimentally measured observable
and therefore biases the nal expectation value even when the circuit dynamics are
otherwise correct. To compensate for this eect, a calibration-based linear inver-
sion procedure is introduced so that the noiseless observable can be reconstructed
from experimentally accessible data. This observable-level viewpoint is also consis-
tent with recent experimental studies of readout-error-mitigated state reconstruction
on superconducting-qubit platforms [38].
   The second layer addresses noise in two-qubit gate operations, especially the CNOT
gate, which is typically one of the dominant error sources in present-day superconduct-
ing and trapped-ion quantum devices. After characterizing the noisy gate and removing
the ideal unitary action, the remaining error channel is twirled into an eective Pauli
channel and then inverted through quasi-probability decomposition. This gate-level
mitigation is the main source of PEC capability in the package.
   These two layers serve dierent but complementary purposes. Observable-level mit-
igation corrects measurement bias, while gate-level mitigation aims to compensate for

                                            -7-
Chapter III


errors accumulated during circuit execution. Integrating both layers into a single work-
ow is one of the main features of the proposed package. Rather than treating them
as isolated correction techniques, the package organizes them into a unied mitiga-
tion pipeline that can be executed automatically for a given user circuit and backend
conguration.


                II.D. General Framework of the Proposed Package

  Based on the theoretical ingredients described above, the proposed package is de-
signed as an automated workow that converts a user-dened quantum circuit into a
mitigation-ready execution pipeline. At the conceptual level, the workow consists of
four main stages.
  First, the package parses the target circuit, identies the observables of interest,
and determines which noisy components require mitigation. Second, it collects or im-
ports calibration information, including readout characterization and two-qubit gate
noise data. Third, it constructs the inverse maps needed for mitigation, including the
observable-level correction model and the gate-level quasi-probability representation.
Fourth, it generates randomized executable circuits, runs them on a simulator or back-
end, and reconstructs the mitigated expectation values from the weighted measurement
outcomes.
  This framework emphasizes automation, modularity, and reproducibility. Automa-
tion is important because PEC involves many intermediate steps that are cumbersome
to perform manually. Modularity is necessary because dierent users may work with
dierent circuits, observables, noise models, or backends. Reproducibility is critical
because mitigation performance depends strongly on calibration assumptions and ex-
ecution details. A package-oriented design therefore provides practical value beyond
the theoretical PEC formalism itself.
  From the perspective of this thesis, the role of the present chapter is to establish
the physical and mathematical background behind the package. The next chapter
then builds on this foundation and explains how these concepts are organized into the
actual methodology of the automated PEC package, including calibration ow, circuit
transformation, weighted sampling, and truncation-based sampling reduction.



                                          -8-
Chapter III




Chapter III
Methodology of the Package
III   Methodology of the Package


   This section describes the design of the automated probabilistic error cancellation
(PEC) package for near-term quantum computers. The package is organized around
four main components: observable-level readout mitigation, two-qubit gate mitigation
based on Pauli twirling, an automated execution workow, and a truncation strategy
for reducing sampling overhead. Together, these components convert a user-dened
quantum circuit into a mitigation-ready pipeline that can estimate near-ideal expecta-
tion values under realistic noise models.


              III.A. Observable-Level Probabilistic Error Cancellation




FIG. 2. State-preparation circuit used in the observable-level readout PEC workow.

   We rst consider readout-noise mitigation at the observable level [37, 38]. In the
Pauli transfer matrix (PTM) representation, any single-qubit observable can be ex-
panded on the Pauli basis {σ̂0 , σ̂x , σ̂y , σ̂z }, where σ̂0 = Ib denotes the identity operator
and σ̂x , σ̂y , and σ̂z are Pauli matrices. Due to readout noise, the experimentally realized
observable is distorted as

                              O
                              e = ã0 Ib + ãx σ̂x + ãy σ̂y + ãz σ̂z .                    (6)

Here, each coecient ãi is obtained from the HilbertSchmidt inner product
                                     1
                             ãi =     Tr(σ̂i O),
                                              e        i ∈ {0, x, y, z}.                    (7)
                                     2

                                                 -9-
Chapter III


To remove the noise contribution, we dene the state-preparation matrix

                                          Aij = ⟨σ̂i | ρj ⟩                             (8)

where the set of calibration input states is chosen as {ρj } = {|0⟩ , |1⟩ , |+⟩ , |R⟩}, with
                 √                          √
|+⟩ = (|0⟩+|1⟩)/ 2 and |R⟩ = (|0⟩+i |1⟩)/ 2. These four states form the single-qubit
preparation set used to construct the readout-calibration matrix.
    Fig. 2 shows the state-preparation circuit used in the readout-PEC procedure. This
circuit prepares the input state before the observable reconstruction and serves as the
reference conguration for building the calibration matrix A. and the readout matrix

                                          eij = ⟨σ̃j | σ̂i ⟩
                                          B                                             (9)

where ρj and σ̃j are experimentally prepared states and measured observables, respec-
                   e consists of the expansion coecients of the noisy observables
tively. The matrix B
{σ̃x , σ̃y , σ̃z }. The Gram matrix
                                            g exp = BA
                                                    e                                  (10)

characterizes the measurement response of the device. Under the assumption that
state-preparation errors are small, the readout matrix can be obtained as

                                          e = g exp A−1 .
                                          B                                            (11)

Therefore, the noiseless observable may be expanded with respect to the noisy basis
 b σ̃x , σ̃y , σ̃z } as
{I,
                          b = a0 Ib + ax σ̃x + ay σ̃y + az σ̃z = ⟨O|
                          O                                       bB e −1 .            (12)

This means that, even if only noisy measurement outputs are available, the noiseless
expectation value can still be reconstructed from the noisy raw outputs. The corrected
coecients ai then yield the noise-mitigated expectation value

                            ⟨O⟩
                             b = a0 + ax ⟨σ̃x ⟩ + ay ⟨σ̃y ⟩ + az ⟨σ̃z ⟩.               (13)

This constitutes the observable-level PEC, eectively compensating readout errors by
linear inversion.


                 III.B. Two-Qubit Gate Probabilistic Error Cancellation

    To characterize and mitigate noise in two-qubit gates, we focus on the CNOT oper-
                                                    eCNOT denote the experimentally
ation, which typically dominates device errors. Let U

                                                -10-
Chapter III


                     bCNOT the ideal one. After removing the ideal unitary action,
implemented gate and U
                                                            e . We then apply Pauli
the remaining error process is described by a noisy channel Λ
twirling so that the eective channel becomes diagonal in the PTM representation,
which greatly simplies the construction of the inverse channel required by PEC.
   At the implementation level, Pauli twirling for a noisy two-qubit gate requires a more
careful interpretation than the formal channel expression alone might suggest. The
noisy CNOT gate is described by an ideal CNOT operation together with an eective
noise channel, but this decomposition should be understood as a mathematical model
rather than as two independently accessible circuit elements. In particular, the noise
        e is inferred from the noisy gate behavior and cannot be physically isolated
channel Λ
and manipulated as a standalone operation. As a result, a Pauli pair cannot be inserted
directly between the ideal CNOT gate and the noise channel as if the two parts were
separately realizable in the circuit.
   This implementation issue is illustrated in Fig. 3(a). The formal decomposition of
a noisy CNOT into an ideal CNOT gate and an eective noise channel is useful for
analysis, but it does not imply that a Pauli pair can be inserted physically between these
two components. To obtain an implementable construction, the Pauli operator must
be moved across the ideal CNOT gate by Cliord conjugation, as shown in Fig. 3(b). If
Pbj denotes the Pauli operator associated with the twirling step, then the transformed
operator is written as
                                     ′
                                   Pbj = U         b†
                                         bCNOT Pbj U                                 (14)
                                                    CNOT .


That is, the conjugated operator U         b†                  b′
                                            CNOT is denoted by Pj . Because the CNOT
                                 bCNOT Pbj U
                                                              ′
gate belongs to the Cliord group, the transformed operator Pbj remains within the
Pauli group and can still be expressed as a tensor product of single-qubit Pauli opera-
tors. This property makes it possible to replace the infeasible direct-insertion picture
by an equivalent circuit-level construction in which the twirling operators are imple-
mented before and after the CNOT gate in a physically accessible manner.
   More generally, the Pauli basis should be chosen on the full qubit support of the
gate block being mitigated. If the eective noisy block spans n qubits, we dene

                                b σ̂x , σ̂y , σ̂z }⊗n ,
                          Pn = {I,                        |Pn | = 4n .               (15)

which is illustrated in Fig. 4.

                                               -11-
Chapter III




               (a) A formal decomposition of a noisy CNOT into an ideal
               CNOT and a noise channel suggests inserting a Pauli pair
                    between them, but this operation is not directly
                    implementable because the noise channel is not
                               independently accessible.




               (b) An implementable Pauli-twirling construction obtained
               by conjugating the Pauli operator through the ideal CNOT
                 gate and replacing it with the transformed Pauli pair.




               (c) Eective noisy CNOT channel after averaging over the
                       implementable Pauli-twirled realizations.


   FIG. 3. Circuit interpretation of Pauli twirling for a noisy two-qubit gate. The
nonphysical direct-insertion picture is reformulated into an equivalent implementable
  construction using Cliord conjugation, and averaging over the resulting circuits
   produces the eective twirled noisy CNOT channel used in the PEC workow.




                                         -12-
Chapter III




FIG. 4. Extension of the Pauli-twirling construction to a general n-qubit gate block.
The Pauli operators are chosen from Pn and averaged over all realizations to obtain
                             the eective twirled channel.


   With this reformulation, Pauli twirling is no longer viewed as an insertion into an
inaccessible internal decomposition of the noisy gate. Instead, it is expressed as a
circuit-level transformation based on Pauli conjugation around the CNOT gate, fol-
lowed by averaging over the resulting realizations. The eective noisy CNOT channel
obtained in Fig. 3(c) is the channel representation used in the subsequent PEC con-
struction.
   Using gate set tomography (GST), the experimental realization associated with the
j th Pauli-twirled circuit can be written as

                                       e Pb′ † U
                               gjexp = B       bPTM Λe Pbj A.                       (16)
                                           j    CNOT


Therefore, each individual twirled realization can be extracted according to
                               ′
                             Pbj † U
                                   bPTM Λ
                                    CNOT
                                                 e −1 g exp A−1 .
                                         e Pbj = B
                                                       j                            (17)

The ideal CNOT in the PTM representation is
                              1 hb b             †
                                                    i
                      b PTM
                      UCNOT = n Tr Pa UCNOT Pb UCNOT .
                                            b  b                                    (18)
                              2
Here, Pba , Pbb ∈ Pn . Let P denote the set of sampled n-qubit Pauli operators. Averaging
over all realizations gives the twirled noisy CNOT gate,
                                       1 X b′ † b P T M e b
                         U P T M e PT
                         bCNOT   Λ =        P U         Λ Pj ,                      (19)
                                      |P| j j CNOT

and hence the Pauli-twirled noise channel is obtained as
                                                                    !
                          1  b P T M −1 X b′ † b P T M e b
                    e PT
                    Λ =      UCNOT          Pj UCNOT Λ Pj               .           (20)
                         |P|              j


                                            -13-
Chapter III


The above twirling construction is summarized in Fig 5.
   The resulting twirled channel can be written in the Pauli-channel form already
introduced in Eq. (4),
                                               n −1
                                              4X
                                 e PT (ρ) =
                                 Λ                    αj Pbj ρPbj† .
                                              j=0


                     e PT takes the diagonal expansion already introduced in Eq. (3),
   In the PTM basis, Λ
                                       h              i
                              e PT = Ei P † Λ
                              Λ             e Pi · P † Pi .
                                         i          i



with ck the PTM eigenvalue associated with the k th n-qubit Pauli basis element, where
Pbj ∈ Pn and αj are the Pauli-channel coecients.
   The diagonal PTM coecients {ck } and the Pauli-channel coecients {αj } are
related by a linear transform. Dening
                                                                    
                                c0                     α0 
                                                             
                                c1                     α1 
                                ..  ,
                             C=       
                                                         ..  ,
                                                      A=                       (21)
                                .                      . 
                                                             
                                c4n −1                   α4n −1

we have

                                C = T A,         A = T −1 C,                     (22)

where T is the ±1 sign matrix determined by Pauli commutation relations. Its entries
satisfy
                                      
                                      1,
                                      
                                               Pbk Pbj = Pbj Pbk ,
                              Tkj =                                              (23)
                                      −1, Pbk Pbj = −Pbj Pbk .
                                      

In matrix form, Eq. (22) is
                                                                      
                          c0   1 ±1 · · · ±1  α0 
                          c1  ±1 1 · · · ±1  α1 
                                                       
                          ..   .. .. . . ..   ..  .
                                =                                          (24)
                          .   . .          . .  . 
                                                       
                          c4n −1    ±1 ±1 · · · 1    α4n −1

   To construct the inverse channel, we rst invert the diagonal PTM representation.

                                              -14-
Chapter III


Assuming ck ̸= 0 for all k ,
                                                                    
                                                1/c0 
                                                        
                                    −1         1/c1 
                               Λ (ρ)
                               e PT         −1
                                        ←→ C =  . 
                                               
                                                         .                     (25)
                                                .. 
                                                        
                                                1/c4n −1

Transforming back to the Pauli-channel representation gives the quasi-probability co-
ecients                                                      
                                  q0         1/c0 
                                                    
                                  q1         1/c1 
                               Q=        −1
                                  ..  = T  ..  ,
                                                                              (26)
                                  .          . 
                                                    
                                  q4 −1
                                    n          1/c4 −1
                                                   n


so that the inverse Pauli-twirled channel used in PEC is
                                                 −1
                                                4X n

                                    PT −1
                                                    qj Pbj ρPbj† .              (27)
                                      
                                  Λ
                                  e       (ρ) =
                                                  j=0


The coecients {qj } are generally not positive, which is why they are interpreted as
quasi-probabilities rather than ordinary probabilities. These weights are the quanti-
ties used by the package to generate randomized correction circuits and to reweight
measured outcomes during post-processing.




                                               -15-
Chapter IV




             (a) Two-qubit state-preparation circuit used for calibration of the
                                     twirled gate model.




             (b) Averaged noisy CNOT channel obtained after summing over all
                          implementable Pauli-twirled realizations.




             (c) Full circuit-level implementation of Pauli twirling for the target
                                        two-qubit gate.


FIG. 5. Workow of the two-qubit-gate twirling procedure, including calibration-state
   preparation, averaging of the noisy CNOT channel, and the full implementable
                                       twirling circuit.




                                             -16-
Chapter IV




Chapter IV
Automated PEC Package Architecture
IV   Automated PEC Package Architecture


  This chapter describes how the proposed probabilistic error cancellation package
is organized into an automated software workow. While the previous chapter fo-
cuses on the theoretical construction of observable-level and two-qubit-gate PEC, the
present chapter explains how these components are implemented and connected in
the package. The class-based design separates the mitigation procedure into readout
calibration, two-qubit-gate characterization, PEC execution, and example-dependent
post-processing, so that each stage can be reused across dierent benchmark circuits.
The overall package workow is illustrated in Fig. 6.



                     IV.A. Overall Workow of the Package

  The package starts from an arbitrary user-dened quantum circuit and automati-
cally identies the information required for mitigation. In the current implementation,
the workow is divided into three main computational modules, namely ReadoutPEC,
PauliTwirlingPEC, and PauliSamplingPEC. The rst module generates readout-
mitigation weights for the active qubits appearing in the target circuit. The second
module characterizes the noisy two-qubit gates in the circuit and constructs the cor-
responding Pauli-twirled inverse weights. The third module combines these calibrated
weights with the target circuit and evaluates the PEC-corrected expectation values of
the required observables.
  In practical usage, the main program or notebook rst passes the target circuit
to the readout-calibration module.    The readout-mitigation data returned by this
module are then used together with the twirled two-qubit-gate matrices generated by
PauliTwirlingPEC. After both sets of weights have been obtained, PauliSamplingPEC

                                         -17-
Chapter IV




FIG. 6. Overall workow of the automated PEC package. A target quantum circuit is
processed by the readout-mitigation and two-qubit-gate twirling modules to generate
mitigation weights, which are then passed to the PEC execution and post-processing
                      stage to reconstruct the mitigated results.


constructs the corresponding PEC circuits, executes all retained weighted realizations,
and returns the mitigated expectation values.       Finally, the example-specic post-
processing scripts convert these expectation values into the nal quantities of interest,
such as CHSH values for Bell-state preparation or delities for quantum teleportation.



                        IV.B. Readout Calibration Module

   The readout-calibration module is implemented by the ReadoutPEC class. Given
a target circuit, the module rst detects the active qubits involved in the computa-
tion, excluding measurement-only qubits. It then generates the complete calibration
input set on the active subsystem by preparing tensor-product states from the set
{|0⟩ , |1⟩ , |+⟩ , |R⟩}. For the same active subsystem, the module also constructs all

                                          -18-
Chapter IV


Pauli-basis measurement settings required to estimate the noisy observable basis.
      For each preparation-measurement conguration, a calibration circuit is generated
and executed through the sampler backend. The measured expectation values are
collected into the matrix G, which is then reshaped into a 4k × 4k form for a k -qubit
active subsystem. Using the predened ideal matrix A, the noisy observable matrix B
is obtained according to Eq. (11). The inverse of B is subsequently used to construct
the readout-mitigation weights associated with each Pauli observable. In this way,
the module returns not only the calibrated readout weights but also the active-qubit
indices and the associated matrices needed for later PEC processing. The corresponding
readout-calibration procedure is summarized in Fig. 7.

                              FIG. 7. ReadoutPEC Procedure

Require: Target circuit C , sampler, backend, shots
Ensure: Active qubits, matrices G, A, and B , and readout weights
 1: Detect the active qubits in C

 2: Generate tensor-product calibration states from {|0⟩ , |1⟩ , |+⟩ , |R⟩}

 3: Generate all Pauli-basis measurement settings on the active subsystem

 4: for each preparation-measurement conguration do

 5:      Build the corresponding calibration circuit
 6:      Execute the circuit with the sampler backend
 7:      Record the measured expectation value
 8: end for

 9: Assemble the measured data into the matrix G

10: Construct the ideal matrix A

11: Compute the noisy observable matrix B according to Eq. (11)

12: Construct the readout weights from B −1

13: return active qubits, G, A, B , and the readout weights




                        IV.C. Two-Qubit-Gate Twirling Module

      The two-qubit-gate characterization module is implemented by the class Pauli-
TwirlingPEC. This module scans the target circuit and extracts all distinct CNOT

                                              -19-
Chapter IV


congurations appearing in the active subsystem. For each CNOT type, the module
builds a family of Pauli-twirled circuits by combining three ingredients: the chosen
calibration input state, a pre-CNOT Pauli layer, and the conjugated post-CNOT Pauli
layer implied by Cliord propagation.
  More specically, for each initial state and each Pauli twirling label, the module
constructs the corresponding twirled circuit and evaluates its expectation values over
the complete Pauli observable basis. The resulting data are assembled into a matrix
representation of the noisy two-qubit gate. After averaging over all Pauli-twirled real-
izations, the module converts the measured matrix into the Pauli-twirled noisy-channel
representation by using the readout-correction matrix B and the ideal preparation ma-
trix. The resulting diagonalized eective channel is then used to compute the inverse
quasi-probability weights required for PEC execution.
  An important feature of this implementation is that the module stores the character-
ized two-qubit-gate information by CNOT key, namely by the physical control-target
pair (c, t). This allows the same package to process circuits containing multiple CNOT
gates of the same type without recalibrating them repeatedly. It also makes the work-
ow compatible with larger benchmark circuits in which the same entangling gate pat-
tern appears more than once. The corresponding twirling-based weight-construction
procedure is summarized in Fig. 8.


                 IV.D. PEC Execution and Truncation Strategy

  The PEC execution stage is implemented by the PauliSamplingPEC class. After
receiving the target circuit together with the precomputed readout and two-qubit-gate
weights, the module rst analyzes the circuit structure and records all active qubits
and all CNOT positions. It then enumerates the Pauli labels corresponding to the
twirled realizations of the selected CNOT gates and builds the full set of weighted
PEC circuits.
  In the present implementation, the package evaluates all circuits corresponding to
the generated weighting combinations. For each weighting term, the module inserts
the appropriate pre- and post-CNOT Pauli layers into the target circuit, constructs
the required measurement circuits for the requested observables, and accumulates the
weighted expectation values returned by the sampler backend. Therefore, the mitigated

                                          -20-
Chapter IV


                            FIG. 8. PauliTwirlingPEC Procedure

Require: Target circuit C , sampler, readout matrix B
Ensure: Inverse twirled two-qubit-gate weights for each CNOT key
 1: Detect the active qubits and identify all distinct CNOT keys in C

 2: for each CNOT key (c, t) do

 3:      Generate the calibration input states on the active subsystem
 4:      Generate all Pauli twirling labels
 5:      for each input state and twirling label do
 6:         Build the pre-CNOT Pauli layer and its conjugated post-CNOT Pauli layer
 7:         Construct the twirled calibration circuit
 8:         Measure the full Pauli observable basis
 9:      end for
10:      Assemble the measured data into the noisy two-qubit-gate matrix
11:      Average over all Pauli-twirled realizations
12:      Convert the averaged matrix into the Pauli-twirled channel using B −1 , A−1
13:      Compute the inverse quasi-probability weights for the CNOT key
14: end for

15: return the inverse weights indexed by the physical CNOT pairs


result is obtained by a deterministic weighted sum over all retained PEC realizations.
If a circuit contains m twirled two-qubit gates, acts on an active subsystem of k qubits,
and requires Nobs target observables, then the full PEC execution count is given by
                                                        m
                                      Ncirc = Nobs 4k        .                         (28)

This follows from the fact that each twirled gate introduces 4k Pauli-label realizations
on the active subsystem, and this weighting expansion must be repeated for every target
observable. The corresponding PEC execution procedure is summarized in Fig. 9.
      To reduce the execution cost for circuits with many weighted realizations, an op-
tional truncation strategy is provided. Since the quasi-probability weighting terms can
be negative, the pruning criterion is not applied directly to the signed weighting val-
ues. Instead, the package rst enumerates all weighting combinations, evaluates the
corresponding combined weighting terms, and then takes their absolute values. These

                                               -21-
Chapter IV


                           FIG. 9. PauliSamplingPEC Procedure

Require: Target circuit C , target observables, readout weights, twirled two-qubit-gate
      weights
Ensure: PEC-corrected observable expectation values
 1: Analyze C to identify the active qubits and the CNOT list

 2: Enumerate the Pauli labels associated with the twirled CNOT realizations

 3: if truncation is enabled then

 4:      Sort the weighting products by absolute magnitude
 5:      Retain the dominant subset whose cumulative contribution exceeds the threshold
 6: else

 7:      Keep all weighting combinations
 8: end if

 9: for each retained weighting combination do

10:      Insert the corresponding pre- and post-CNOT Pauli layers into C
11:      for each target observable do
12:          Construct the corresponding measurement circuit
13:          Execute the circuit with the sampler backend
14:          Accumulate the weighted observable contribution
15:      end for
16: end for

17: Target observables are reconstructed using readout weights.

18: return the PEC-corrected observable expectation values



absolute weighting values are normalized by the total absolute weight          k |wk |, so that
                                                                           P

the cumulative contribution can be interpreted as a fraction of the full PEC over-
head. After this normalization step, the retained subset is determined by a prescribed
threshold.

      The cumulative contribution used in this pruning step is illustrated in Fig. 10. In
this gure, the horizontal axis denotes the absolute weighting values sorted from small
to large, and the vertical axis denotes the remaining normalized contribution, 1 −
cumsum(|w|)/ |w|. Therefore, the curve decreases from 1 to 0 as increasingly larger
              P


                                             -22-
Chapter V


weighting terms are included. The vertical dividing line drawn from the marked point
separates the weighting set into two parts: the weightings on the left-hand side belong
to the truncated region and are pruned from execution, while the weightings on the
right-hand side are retained for circuit execution. In the present teleportation setting,
a threshold of 99% is adopted, so that the retained subset accounts for the dominant
contribution of the full weighting expansion while the negligible-weight circuits are
removed before execution.




FIG. 10. Cumulative quasi-probability contribution used to determine the truncation
 threshold. The dominant weighting terms are retained up to the chosen threshold,
      while the remaining low-contribution circuits are pruned from execution.




                                          -23-
Chapter V




Chapter V
Benchmark Results and Analysis
V    Benchmark Results and Analysis


    This chapter presents the benchmark circuits, evaluation settings, and numerical
results used to validate the proposed automated PEC package. In this work, three rep-
resentative examples are considered: a CNOT benchmark with dierent gate counts,
a Bell-state benchmark evaluated through the ClauserHorneShimonyHolt (CHSH)
quantity, and a quantum-teleportation benchmark evaluated through state delity.
These examples provide a progressively more demanding test of the automation ow,
from direct gate-level behavior to entanglement-based observables and nally to a
multi-stage communication circuit.




                        V.A. Common Simulation Settings

    Unless otherwise specied, all benchmarks are executed with 1024 shots per circuit
evaluation and repeated over 100 trials. The noisy execution environment is built from
the noisy model of IBMQ devices and run through the Aer simulator together with
the Sampler interface. These common settings are used across the three examples
so that the dierences in mitigation behavior mainly reect the circuit structure and
the associated post-processing task rather than changes in backend conguration. In
all three examples, the main driver rst invokes the readout-mitigation module to
construct observable-level weights, then calls the Pauli-twirling module to compute the
CNOT-dependent gate weights, and nally passes these weights to the PEC execution
stage. The example-specic post-processing code subsequently converts the corrected
observable-basis outputs into the target benchmark metric.

                                         -24-
Chapter V


                             V.B. CNOT Benchmark

   The rst benchmark studies circuits containing one, two, and three CNOT gates.
The purpose of this example is to compare how noise accumulates as the number of en-
tangling gates increases and how PEC compensates the resulting bias. Since the class-
based package explicitly constructs Pauli-twirling weights for the CNOT gates detected
in the circuit, this benchmark provides the most direct validation of the twirling-based
mitigation module. The circuit structures used in this benchmark are shown in Fig. 11,
and the corresponding post-mitigation procedure is summarized in Fig. 12. For this
two-qubit benchmark, the active subsystem contains k = 2 qubits and the full Pauli
basis contains Nobs = 16 observables. Therefore, Eq. (28) gives 256, 4096, and 65536
PEC circuits for the one-, two-, and three-CNOT cases, respectively. No truncation is
applied in this case.


  q0        •           q0        •                   q0        •              •
  q1                    q1               •            q1                •
       1CNOT                   2CNOT                             3CNOT
FIG. 11. Circuit structures used in the CNOT benchmark. The benchmark compares
                 circuits containing one, two, and three CNOT gates.


   Figs. 13a13d summarize the CNOT benchmark using four noise models extracted
from the IBM backends ibm_fez, ibm_boston, ibm_miami, and ibm_pittsburgh.
These backend-specic noise models are then assigned to the corresponding simulators
sim_fez, sim_boston, sim_miami, and sim_pittsburgh for execution. In each case,
the benchmark compares the mean result of the noisy circuit and the PEC-mitigated
circuit for one, two, and three CNOT gates against the ideal value 1.
   This benchmark directly reects the eectiveness of the two-qubit gate mitigation
module. In this example, the post-processing stage compares the corrected observable-
basis outputs with the corresponding noisy results across circuits containing dierent
numbers of CNOT gates. A common feature in Figs. 13a13d is that the PEC-mitigated
mean values remain closer to the ideal value 1 than the corresponding noisy results.
This indicates that the proposed package eectively compensates the accumulated gate-

                                          -25-
Chapter V


             FIG. 12. Post-mitigation pseudocode for the CNOT benchmark.

Require: Mitigated observable-basis outputs for 1-, 2-, and 3-CNOT circuits
Ensure: CNOT benchmark comparison result
 1: for each CNOT circuit instance do

 2:      collect the PEC-corrected observable outputs
 3:      collect the corresponding noisy outputs
 4:      reconstruct the benchmark quantity from the corrected observables
 5:      reconstruct the same quantity from the noisy observables
 6: end for

 7: compare the corrected and noisy results across the three circuits


level noise in circuits with repeated CNOT operations.
      The detailed device-dependent trend is not identical in all four cases, but the same
mitigation eect is observed consistently: after applying the Pauli-twirling-based PEC
correction, the output is shifted toward the ideal target behavior. Therefore, the CNOT
benchmark supports the claim that the proposed package is not tied to a single noisy
backend, but can be applied to dierent IBM-device noisy models while preserving the
same mitigation logic.




                                             -26-
Chapter V




              (a) sim_fez                             (b) sim_boston




             (c) sim_miami                           (d) sim_pittsburgh


   FIG. 13. Comparison of noisy and PEC-mitigated mean results for the CNOT
benchmark under four IBM-device noisy models. The dashed horizontal line indicates
                                the ideal value 1.




                                       -27-
Chapter V


                           V.C. Bell-State Benchmark

  The second benchmark considers Bell-state preparation as a single-CNOT applica-
tion example. After the Bell state is generated, the nal correlations are evaluated
through the CHSH quantity. This benchmark is useful because it shows how the pack-
age output is not limited to raw observable expectation values. Instead, the mitigated
Pauli-basis results are further converted by the example-specic post-processing code
into a physically meaningful correlation metric. The Bell-state preparation circuit is
shown in Fig. 14, and the corresponding post-mitigation procedure is summarized in
Fig. 15. In this case, the active subsystem again contains k = 2 qubits and the PEC
stage evaluates the full two-qubit Pauli basis with Nobs = 16. Since the Bell-state
circuit contains one twirled CNOT gate, Eq. (28) gives a total of 256 PEC circuits for
each complete Bell-state evaluation. No truncation is applied in this example.


                            q0          H         •
                            q1
FIG. 14. Circuit structure used in the Bell-state benchmark. A single Hadamard gate
followed by one CNOT gate prepares the entangled state used for CHSH evaluation.


  Figs 16a and 16b present the latest available ibm_fez dataset with 100 trials, while
Figs. 17a and 17b show the corresponding ibm_boston results.
  This example highlights an important property of the package architecture. The
PEC engine itself returns mitigated expectation values on the observable basis, while
the post-processing stage combines the corrected Pauli-basis outputs into the CHSH
correlators and the nal CHSH score. As a result, the same mitigation pipeline can
support application-level observables without changing the internal class structure.
  Figs. 16a17b verify that the proposed PEC package can be applied to the same
Bell-state benchmark using noise models extracted from the IBM backends ibm_fez
and ibm_boston. These noise models are also executed through the corresponding
simulators sim_fez and sim_boston rather than on the hardware backends directly.
In both cases, the PEC-mitigated CHSH values are consistently closer to the ideal

                                         -28-
Chapter V


         FIG. 15. Post-mitigation pseudocode for the Bell-state benchmark.

Require: PEC-corrected Pauli-basis expectation values for the Bell-state circuit
Ensure: Final CHSH value
 1: extract the corrected correlators required for CHSH evaluation

 2: compute the four CHSH correlation terms from the corrected observables

 3: combine these terms into the CHSH quantity S

 4: repeat the same procedure for the noisy outputs

 5: compare the mitigated and noisy CHSH values


value than the corresponding No-PEC results, showing that the package improves the
observed nonclassical correlation of the noisy Bell-state circuit.
   The improvement is clearly visible in both the trial-by-trial plots and the corre-
sponding distributions. For the ibm_fez noisy model, the mean CHSH value is in-
creased from 2.500 to 3.014, while for the ibm_boston noisy model it is increased from
2.769 to 2.861. These results show that the package is able to recover the correlation
suppressed by device noise, rather than being tailored to only one specic backend.
   At the same time, the Gaussian distribution of the PEC results is broader than that
of the corresponding No-PEC results. This trend is again consistent with the theoretical
behavior of probabilistic error cancellation: the quasi-probability reweighting reduces
the bias of the noisy estimate and improves the mean CHSH value, but it also amplies
the statistical uctuation of the mitigated estimator [35, 39]. This eect is reected in
the larger standard deviations of the PEC results, namely 0.037 versus 0.029 for the
sim_fez case and 0.016 versus 0.012 for the sim_boston case.
   Taken together, the Bell-state benchmark shows that the proposed PEC package
improves the CHSH performance of noisy Bell-state circuits across dierent device-
noise models, while still exhibiting the expected increase in variance that accompanies
probabilistic error cancellation.




                                           -29-
Chapter V




                         (a) Trial-by-trial CHSH comparison




                          (b) Distribution of CHSH values.


 FIG. 16. Numerical results for the Bell-state benchmark over 100 trials under the
                    ibm_fez noisy model executed by sim_fez.




                                        -30-
Chapter V




                         (a) Trial-by-trial CHSH comparison




                          (b) Distribution of CHSH values.


 FIG. 17. Numerical results for the Bell-state benchmark over 100 trials under the
                ibm_boston noisy model executed by sim_boston.




                                        -31-
Chapter V


                      V.D. Quantum-Teleportation Benchmark

   The third benchmark considers a teleportation circuit containing three CNOT gates.
In this example, the nal performance metric is the delity between the input state on
qubit q0 and the reconstructed nal state on qubit q2 . Two input-state settings are con-
sidered, namely the amplitude vector [0.6, 0.8] and the equal-superposition input state
                         √     √
with amplitude vector [1/ 2, 1/ 2]. The teleportation circuit used in this benchmark
is shown in Fig. 18, and the corresponding post-mitigation procedure is summarized in
Fig. 19. Because this benchmark contains the largest number of CNOT gates among
the chosen examples, it is also the main case in which truncation is used. The current
teleportation evaluation adopts a truncation threshold of 0.99.


         q0     |ψin ⟩             •     H                   •

         q1       H         •                       •

         q2                                             H          H      |ψout ⟩

FIG. 18. Circuit structure used in the quantum-teleportation benchmark. The circuit
contains three CNOT gates and is used to reconstruct the delity between the initial
                         state on |ψin ⟩ and the nal state on |ψout ⟩.


   For the teleportation benchmark, the post-processing stage converts the mitigated
observable-basis outputs into the nal state information required for delity evaluation.
More specically, the corrected measurement results are used to reconstruct the output-
state observables on qubit q2 , which are then compared with the initialized input state
on qubit q0 to obtain the teleportation delity under noisy and mitigated execution.
Here the active subsystem contains k = 3 qubits, the full three-qubit Pauli basis
contains Nobs = 64 observables, and the circuit involves m = 3 twirled CNOT gates.
Therefore, Eq. (28) gives 644 PEC circuits for one complete teleportation evaluation,
that is, 262144 weighted realizations for each target observable and 16777216 circuits
in total for the full observable set.
   Because the full PEC expansion of the teleportation benchmark is computationally
expensive, a truncation procedure is introduced before execution. Table I summarizes

                                             -32-
Chapter V


  FIG. 19. Post-mitigation pseudocode for the quantum-teleportation benchmark.

Require: PEC-corrected observable-basis outputs for the teleportation circuit
Ensure: Teleportation delity
 1: extract the corrected observables associated with the output qubit q2

 2: reconstruct the mitigated output-state information from these observables

 3: form the output-state representation of the teleported qubit

 4: compare the reconstructed output state with the initialized input state on |ψin ⟩

 5: compute the teleportation delity

 6: repeat the same reconstruction for the noisy outputs

 7: compare the mitigated and noisy delities


the corresponding truncation data.

TABLE I. Truncation summary for the quantum-teleportation benchmark under two
                                IBM-device noisy models.


Device        Twirled CNOTs Total circuits Threshold Retained circuits Retained ratio

sim_fez               3           16777216          0.99        2719872           16.21%
sim_boston            3           16777216          0.99        580544            3.46%


   The table shows that, under the same threshold, the retained circuit count can still
vary signicantly depending on the underlying noisy model. This indicates that the
truncation behavior is determined not only by the circuit structure itself, but also by the
weight distribution induced by the device-specic noisy model. In particular, a larger
noise level generally leads to a more diverse set of circuit types that must be sampled
in order to preserve the dominant quasi-probability contribution. As a result, the
number of retained circuits also increases, which in turn requires more computational
and sampling resources during execution.
   To examine the device-independence of the proposed PEC package, the same telepor-
tation workow is evaluated using two noise models extracted from the IBM backends
ibm_fez and ibm_boston, with the corresponding simulations carried out on sim_fez
and sim_boston. The resulting data are shown in Figs. 2023. For each simulator
setting, two input-state settings are considered under the same benchmark circuit.

                                             -33-
Chapter V


   A common feature in all four gures is that the PEC-mitigated mean delity is
closer to the ideal value 1 than the corresponding No-PEC result. This shows that
the proposed PEC package consistently mitigates the noisy teleportation circuit and
improves the accuracy of the reconstructed output state. In other words, the benet of
the package is observed not only for one particular input state or one particular device
model, but across all four teleportation cases considered here.
   Another common feature is that the Gaussian distribution of the PEC results is
broader than that of the corresponding No-PEC results. This behavior is consistent
with the theoretical expectation of probabilistic error cancellation [35, 39]. The quasi-
probability reweighting suppresses the bias of the noisy result and moves the mean
delity toward the ideal value, but it also amplies the statistical uctuation of the
estimator. Therefore, the PEC results become more accurate in their mean value while
also exhibiting a larger variance.
   Taken together, these teleportation results demonstrate two important points. In
addition, the device-dependent truncation behavior is compatible with the broader
practical-QEM picture reported in recent mitigation studies, where noise structure and
mitigation overhead jointly determine the nal execution cost [30, 35, 40].. First, the
proposed PEC package can eectively improve noisy-circuit results for the teleportation
task. Second, the same class-based mitigation workow remains valid across dierent
IBM-device noisy models, which supports the general applicability of the package rather
than a device-specic tuning to a single backend.




                                          -34-
Chapter V




                       (a) Trial-by-trial teleportation delity.




                      (b) Distribution of teleportation delity.


  FIG. 20. Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_fez noisy
       model executed by sim_fez for the input amplitude vector [0.6, 0.8].




                                         -35-
Chapter V




                       (a) Trial-by-trial teleportation delity.




                      (b) Distribution of teleportation delity.


  FIG. 21. Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_fez noisy
 model executed by sim_fez for the equal-superposition input state with amplitude
                                        √     √
                              vector [1/ 2, 1/ 2].




                                         -36-
Chapter V




                       (a) Trial-by-trial teleportation delity.




                      (b) Distribution of teleportation delity.


FIG. 22. Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_boston noisy
     model executed by sim_boston for the input amplitude vector [0.6, 0.8].




                                         -37-
Chapter V




                       (a) Trial-by-trial teleportation delity.




                      (b) Distribution of teleportation delity.


FIG. 23. Quantum-teleportation results over 100 trials under the ibm_boston noisy
    model executed by sim_boston for the equal-superposition input state with
                                             √     √
                         amplitude vector [1/ 2, 1/ 2].




                                         -38-
Chapter VI


                              V.E. Overall Discussion

   Taken together, the three benchmarks show that the proposed package can sup-
port dierent circuit structures and dierent target metrics under a unied mitigation
ow. The CNOT benchmark emphasizes repeated gate-level correction, the Bell-state
benchmark demonstrates application-level reconstruction through CHSH evaluation,
and the teleportation benchmark shows how the same class-based framework can be
extended to a deeper circuit with truncation-enabled execution control. These results
support the central claim of this thesis: the main contribution of the work lies not only
in applying PEC, but in automating and modularizing the full mitigation process.




                                          -39-
Chapter VI




Chapter VI
Conclusions and Future Work
VI   Conclusions and Future Work


   This thesis develops an automated probabilistic error cancellation package for near-
term quantum computers. The package integrates three main class-based components:
observable-level readout mitigation, Pauli-twirling-based two-qubit gate mitigation,
and PEC sampling with optional truncation. By organizing these modules into a
unied workow, the proposed framework reduces the manual eort required to deploy
PEC and improves the reproducibility of mitigation studies across multiple application
examples.
   The benchmark studies on CNOT circuits, Bell-state preparation, and quantum
teleportation show that the same automation ow can support dierent circuit struc-
tures and dierent output metrics while preserving a consistent mitigation pipeline.
This versatility is a central contribution of the work, because it demonstrates that the
package is not limited to a single handcrafted example. Instead, it provides a reusable
software framework that integrates calibration, weighting, sampling, and benchmark-
specic post-processing into a coherent mitigation system.
   Several directions remain open for future work. In particular, one promising direc-
tion is to combine the present class-based PEC workow with recent machine-learning-
assisted mitigation strategies and adaptive inverse-construction schemes [29, 30, 40, 41].
The package may also be extended to support more general noise models and hardware-
specic calibration strategies. In addition, the truncation strategy could be further
rened to achieve a more adaptive balance between mitigation accuracy and sampling
cost. Such extensions would improve the usability and scalability of the package for a
broader range of NISQ-era applications.




                                           -40-
REFERENCE




 [1] J. Preskill. Quantum computing in the NISQ era and beyond. Quantum, 2:79, Aug 2018.
    doi: 10.22331/q-2018-08-06-79.
 [2] F. Arute.   Quantum supremacy using a programmable superconducting processor.
    Nature, 574:505510, Oct 2019. doi: 10.1038/s41586-019-1666-5.
 [3] R. J. Schoelkopf. Wiring up quantum systems. Nature, 451:664669, Feb 2008. doi:
    10.1038/451664a.
 [4] S. Krinner. Realizing repeated quantum error correction in a distance-three surface code.
    Nature, 605:664670, May 2022. doi: 10.1038/s41586-022-04566-8.
 [5] M. Sarovar. Detecting crosstalk errors in quantum information processors. Quantum, 4:
    291, Jul 2020. doi: 10.22331/q-2020-09-11-321.
 [6] B. Nachman. Unfolding quantum computer readout errors. npj Quantum Inf., 6:84, Oct
    2020. doi: 10.1038/s41534-020-00309-7.
 [7] A. Kandala. Error mitigation extends the computational reach of a noisy quantum
    processor. Nature, 567:491495, Mar 2019. doi: 10.1038/s41586-019-1040-7.
 [8] K. Bharti. Noisy intermediate-scale quantum algorithms. Rev. Mod. Phys., 94:015004,
    Feb 2022. doi: 10.1103/RevModPhys.94.015004.
 [9] Y. Kim. Evidence for the utility of quantum computing before fault tolerance. Nature,
    618:500505, 2023. doi: 10.1038/s41586-023-06096-3.
[10] L. Viola. Dynamical decoupling of open quantum systems. Phys. Rev. Lett., 82:2417
    2421, Mar 1999. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.82.2417.
[11] B. M. Terhal. Quantum error correction for quantum memories. Rev. Mod. Phys., 87:
    307346, Apr 2015. doi: 10.1103/RevModPhys.87.307.
[12] C. Gidney. How to factor 2048 bit RSA integers in 8 hours. Quantum, 5:433, Apr 2021.
    doi: 10.22331/q-2021-04-15-433.
[13] K. Temme. Error mitigation for short-depth quantum circuits. Phys. Rev. Lett., 119:
    180509, Nov 2017. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.119.180509.
[14] S. Endo. Hybrid quantum-classical algorithms and quantum error mitigation. J. Phys.
    Soc. Jpn., 90:032001, Mar 2021. doi: 10.7566/JPSJ.90.032001.
[15] Z. Cai.   Quantum error mitigation.     Rev. Mod. Phys., 95:045005, Dec 2023.        doi:

                                             -41-
REFERENCE


    10.1103/RevModPhys.95.045005.
[16] X. Bonet-Monroig. Low-cost error mitigation by symmetry verication. Phys. Rev. A,
    98:062339, Dec 2018. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.98.062339.
[17] M. Huo. Dual-state purication for practical quantum error mitigation. Phys. Rev. A,
    105:022427, Feb 2022. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.105.022427.
[18] E. F. Dumitrescu. Cloud quantum computing of an atomic nucleus. Phys. Rev. Lett.,
    120:210501, May 2018. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.120.210501.
[19] A. He. Zero-noise extrapolation for quantum-gate error mitigation with identity inser-
    tions. Phys. Rev. A, 102:012426, Jul 2020. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.102.012426.
[20] R. Takagi. Fundamental limits of quantum error mitigation. npj Quantum Inf., 8:114,
    Sep 2022. doi: 10.1038/s41534-022-00618-z.
[21] Y. Quek. Exponentially tighter bounds on limitations of quantum error mitigation. Nat.
    Phys., Jul 2024. doi: 10.1038/s41567-024-02536-7.
[22] K. Schultz. Impact of time-correlated noise on zero-noise extrapolation. Phys. Rev. A,
    106:052406, Nov 2022. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.106.052406.
[23] S. Endo. Practical quantum error mitigation for near-future applications. Phys. Rev. X,
    8:031027, Jul 2018. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevX.8.031027.
[24] E. v. d. Berg. Probabilistic error cancellation with sparse Pauli-Lindblad models on
    noisy quantum processors. Nat. Phys., 19:11161121, Sep 2023. doi: 10.1038/s41567-
    023-02042-2.
[25] W. J. Huggins. Virtual distillation for quantum error mitigation. Phys. Rev. X, 11:
    041036, 2021. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevX.11.041036.
[26] P. Czarnik. Error mitigation with cliord data regression. Quantum, 5:592, Dec 2021.
    doi: 10.22331/q-2021-12-08-592.
[27] D. Bultrini. Unifying and benchmarking state-of-the-art quantum error mitigation tech-
    niques. Quantum, 7:1034, 2023. doi: 10.22331/q-2023-06-06-1034.
[28] A. Strikis. Learning-based quantum error mitigation. PRX Quantum, 2:040330, Nov
    2021. doi: 10.1103/PRXQuantum.2.040330.
[29] C. Kim. Quantum error mitigation with articial neural network. IEEE Access, 8:
    188853188860, 2020. doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3031607.
[30] H. Liao. Machine learning for practical quantum error mitigation. Nat. Mach. Intell., 6:



                                            -42-
REFERENCE


    14781486, 2024. doi: 10.1038/s42256-024-00927-2.
[31] S. Bravyi. Mitigating measurement errors in multiqubit experiments. Phys. Rev. A, 103:
    042605, Apr 2021. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.103.042605.
[32] R. LaRose. Mitiq: A software package for error mitigation on noisy quantum computers.
    Quantum, 6:774, Sep 2022. doi: 10.22331/q-2022-08-11-774.
[33] C. Song. Quantum computation with universal error mitigation on a superconducting
    quantum processor. Sci. Adv., 5(9):eaaw5686, 2019. doi: 10.1126/sciadv.aaw5686.
[34] S. Zhang. Error-mitigated quantum gates exceeding physical delities in a trapped-ion
    system. Nat. Commun., 11:587, 2020. doi: 10.1038/s41467-020-14376-z.
[35] D. Qin. Error statistics and scalability of quantum error mitigation formulas. npj
    Quantum Inf., 9:35, Apr 2023. doi: 10.1038/s41534-023-00707-7.
[36] Steven T. Flammia and Joel J. Wallman. Ecient estimation of pauli channels. ACM
    Trans. Quantum Comput., 1(1):3:13:32, Dec 2020. doi: 10.1145/3408039.
[37] E. van den Berg. Model-free readout-error mitigation for quantum expectation values.
    Phys. Rev. A, 105:032620, 2022. doi: 10.1103/PhysRevA.105.032620.
[38] A. S. Aasen. Readout error mitigated quantum state tomography tested on supercon-
    ducting qubits. Commun. Phys., 7:301, 2024. doi: 10.1038/s42005-024-01790-8.
[39] K. Tsubouchi. Symmetric cliord twirling for cost-optimal quantum error mitigation in
    early FTQC regime. npj Quantum Inf., 11:104, 2025. doi: 10.1038/s41534-025-01050-9.
[40] I. Henao. Adaptive quantum error mitigation using pulse-based inverse evolutions. npj
    Quantum Inf., 9:120, 2023. doi: 10.1038/s41534-023-00785-7.
[41] T. B. Adeniyi. Adaptive neural network for quantum error mitigation. Quantum Mach.
    Intell., 7:13, 2025. doi: 10.1007/s42484-024-00234-4.




                                            -43-
