                                                                                                             (page 1)
       Symbolic Discovery for Quantum Machine Learning Architecture
                                                 Yu-Chao Huang

1. Objectives:

Employing machine learning techniques, instead of using heuristic design of quantum machine learn-
ing architecture, to automatically and symbolically search for optimal quantum machine learning ar-
chitecture including the following three stages: data encoding, state evolution, and measurement.

2. Scope and Background:

Quantum machine learning studies data and information using quantum circuits. Abbas et al.1 show
that quantum neural networks have favorable training landscapes and achieve higher effective di-
mensions compared to classical neural networks. However, whether quantum machine learning has
an intrinsic advantage over classical machine learning remains an open question. Many quantum
machine learning architectures have been proposed, including data re-upload classifiers, quantum
Boltzmann machines, IQP classifiers, and many more. At the current stage, quantum machine learn-
ing does not seem to surpass classical machine learning due to limited qubits and architecture design,
which is profoundly different from that in classical machine learning (see Bowles et al.2 ). Therefore,
inspired by the success of AutoML-Zero3 and symbolic discovery of optimizers4 , we aim to formu-
late quantum machine learning architecture as a symbolic search space for optimal ansatz from data
encoding ansatz, state evolution ansatz to measurement basis

3. Methodology:

There are three critical steps for this project: First, we need to define a search space that is broad
enough to include both existing architectures and novel ones that have not been tested before. Sec-
ond, we will develop a search algorithm that includes ansatz evaluation and mutation to progressively
expand the search space in a favorable direction. Lastly, we will assess the discovered algorithms
using a range of tests, from easy to more challenging, to ensure they do not exhibit significant gen-
eralization gaps.

4. Project Significance and Value:

This project’s significance lies in its potential to revolutionize QML by providing a systematic frame-
work for optimizing quantum circuits. By automating the discovery of optimal quantum ansatz, we can
accelerate the development of more powerful and efficient QML models. This advancement will not
only contribute to the theoretical understanding of QML but also pave the way for practical applica-
tions when the emergence of fault-tolerant quantum computers. In essence, this project represents
a crucial step towards realizing the full potential of quantum machine learning.

5. Timelines and Tasks




   1
    Abbas, A., Sutter, D., Zoufal, C. et al. The power of quantum neural networks. Nat Comput Sci 1, 403 409 (2021).
   2
    Bowles, J., Ahmed, S., & Schuld, M. Better than classical? the subtle art of benchmarking quantum machine learning
models (2024).
  3
    Esteban Real, Chen Liang, David So, Quoc Le. AutoML-Zero: Evolving Machine Learning Algorithms From Scratch.
ICML’20.
  4
    Chen, Xiangning, et al. Symbolic discovery of optimization algorithms. NeurIPS (2024).


                                                                                                                  /...1
                                                                                   (page 2)




Month       Description
September
               • Project Kickoff and Planning (Week 1-2)

                   – Develop a detailed project plan.

               • Literature Review and Research (Week 3-4)

                   – Conduct an in-depth literature review on quantum machine
                     learning architectures.
                   – Identify key papers and methodologies.


October
               • Search Space Code Writing (Week 1-2)

                   – Define the search space for data encoding, state evolution,
                     and measurement ansatz.

               • Search Algorithm Code Writing (Week 3-4)

                   – Design a search algorithm that includes ansatz evaluation
                     and mutation.
                   – Conduct preliminary tests.


November
               • Refine and Expand Search Algorithm (Week 1-2)

                   – Improve the search algorithm based on initial test results.

               • Algorithm Testing and Validation (Week 3-4)

                   – Evaluate the performance and generalization of discovered
                     algorithms.


December
               • Comprehensive Testing and Optimization (Week 1-2)

               • Organized Results and Analysis (Week 3-4)

January
               • Paper Writing and Presentation Preparation (Week 1-4)




                                                                                       /...2
